Hey it's Andre here.
Some of you might be wondering why we don't add state to search box.
I mean it looks like what we're doing is adding the on change over here giving it a function and this
function goes up a level and letting our app just know that there was an event but search box.
Shouldn't that have these search field state.
Let's explore that.
Now I want you to think about this.
Why wouldn't we put state here positive video.
Think about it.
Let's find out why.
Remember our third point over here.
A good reactive upper decide.
Decides what changes when state changes.
Let's think about this.
Now the reason we don't change the state in search box and instead we trigger whenever an event happens
to handle change up here an app J.S. is because our other component card list needs to have that information
right.
Remember the way we filtered monsters was by using the search field state to filter based on the user
input so the way to think about this is like so if we had our app over here and this is our app.
Yes.
And in here we have the search component and the card list component if the state was only here in the
search box component.
There's no way for the car list component to find out about it.
Remember because of one way data flow data can only flow one way.
So there's no way for let's say the search field state to move up and down to the car list component.
So instead we want to place the state in a place where it gives us access to whatever needs it.
In our case both card list and search box need that state.
That search field state.
So we move it up and the way we architect things and react is that when an event happens on a component
let's say a user clicks or type something.
Well that event triggers the react event system and says Hey something else happened create an event
handler like handle input or handle change and it's going to go up and let the component that has that
state know that hey something else happened you need to update state and how far up that goes.
Let's say we had a component underneath this we notify the component that has the state as far up as
we need to in order to pass down that information to the components that need that information.
Now if you don't get this right away don't worry.
This is something that comes with practice that we're going to explore throughout the course as we build
more and more projects.
But I want you to pay attention that you want to decide as a reactive helper what changes what events
that the users take.
How far up it goes to let the state know and you want to move the state in a high enough position so
that we are still able to pass down that information to different nodes.
But at the same time if we had let's say a state in here that the only people that care about it is
these two components.
Well if that's the case there's no point bringing up the state all the way up here.
You want to place the state over here because all these components don't really care about any of this.
Again this is a topic that will cover a lot more and structuring state is a very big topic and yet but
I want you to start noticing these things let's keep going.